Todays Lecture Agenda :

Flow of the Execution :  


high(JAVA) ----- > Compiler ----> Machine Level Language(1010101) 


Java Program Internal Execution :


.java                           .class
Source Code(Dependent) ---->   Byte Code(Independent)   ---->  Machine Code / Native Code(Dependent)



javac(Compiler)


JDK : (Java Development Kit) :

it Contains Tools & Software to run java Application

Compiler(javac)
JRE(Java Runtime Environment) (libraries): 


JDK                                               JRE 


tools & Software's                             Interpreter 
                                                              


Compiler(javac)                                JVM(java Virtual Machine)                         
syntax checking                                helps to convert 
source code -->  Byte Code                     Byte code ---> Machine Code / Native code                                 
.java  ---> .class




Questions : 

Which code is gives to client ? 
what is source code ?
what is byte code ?
is this correct byte code is independent?
what is used of compiler  
what is main used of Compiler ? -> Syntax checking 
what is name of ur Compiler ?




1. Source Code ( .java )


Definition
-> Source code is the human-readable Java program written by developers using the Java syntax.

Where it is written?
In a .java file.

Example
class Test {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello Java");
    }
}

Characteristics

Written by the programmer.
Understandable to humans.
Cannot be understood directly by the machine.
Needs to be compiled.





✅ 2. Byte Code ( .class )

Definition

-> Byte code is a platform-independent, intermediate code generated by the Java compiler (javac).

Where is it stored?
In a .class file.

Characteristics
Not readable by humans.
Understandable by the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
Same byte code can run on any operating system (Windows, Linux, Mac).
Provides Write Once, Run Anywhere (WORA) feature.


How it is generated?
javac Test.java

This creates:
Test.class




 3. Native Code (Machine Code)

Definition
-> Native code is the OS-dependent machine code generated by the JIT (Just-In-Time) Compiler inside the JVM at runtime.

Characteristics
This is the actual code executed by the CPU.
Fully machine-dependent (different for Windows, Linux, Mac).
Converts frequently used byte code into machine code for performance.


Flow :

Source Code → Byte Code → Native Code → Execution


1. Developer writes:
Test.java → Source Code

2. Compiler converts to:
Test.class → Byte Code

3. JVM + JIT convert and execute as:
010101001101… → Native Code (Machine level)



⭐ Final Summary Table

Type	        File Extension	  Who Understands It?	Platform Dependent?	Created By
Source Code	.java	          Humans	           No	                Developer
Byte Code	.class	          JVM	                   No	                Java Compiler (javac)
Native Code    	Machine code	  CPU	                   Yes	                JIT Compiler (inside JVM)









